# CVI_SIP
Nova Cam
The WHO estimates that, as of 2012 there were 285 million visually impaired people in the world, of which 246 million had low vision and 39 million were blind. 
This percentage accounts for almost 4 percent of the population. They face day-to-day challenges ranging from finding the right pair of socks to recognising the people they know. For problems like human detection they use other methods like sound, scent etc. Picking up these skills can be quite difficult for people who have been blinded by an unnatural accident or had sight in the beginning of their lives and lost it due to medical reasons. This puts them at a disadvantage both physically and socially as they face difficulty in recognizing even known people, who might need to introduce themselves every time they meet, and have trouble getting acquainted with new people. They can trip and fall off the staircase, they can get robbed. They may also have difficulties in reading currency notes or while taking medicine. They also face extreme dangers on road, where the high-speed vehicles are dangerous even for a person with all five senses intact. We aim to reduce the visually challenged people’s troubles in the area of Human detection, and basic object detection (chair, door or staircase). It can be even extended to alert the person in case of any possible threats from behind the person or during the attempt of a robbery. So we suggest a device which recognises the people/object(s) in front of the user and tells him/her who/what is there using an earpiece. It will also be capable of storing a person’s face and information in a database apparently (locally or in cloud depends on the construction of the device). We wish to start by replicating such a device by building an app for smart phones which uses the phone’s camera for detection purposes. The same principle can be extended to construct a device as per the user’s convenience.
